Moodle – Open-source, highly customizable, widely used in universities.

Blackboard Learn – Corporate + university LMS with strong assessment tools.

Canvas LMS – Very modern, widely used in schools/universities, cloud-based.

TalentLMS – Corporate-focused, good for employee training.

Docebo – AI-driven LMS for enterprises.

SAP Litmos – Used in large corporations, integrates with HR tools.


git log --oneline
git reset --hard e9d1b89    
git restore .
git clean -fd




Moodle A highly customizable, open-source LMS that is popular in both educational and corporate settings.

Absorb LMS A mobile-friendly platform designed for large enterprises, with a focus on employee training and development.

EdApp A JavaScript-powered LMS that allows businesses to create microlearning courses and track employee performance.

Docebo A comprehensive learning suite that uses AI to personalize the learning experience.

360Learning An interactive and user-friendly platform that allows users to create and share their own courses and learning materials.

SAP Litmos A cloud-based LMS that offers training solutions in various languages and industries.

Adobe Captivate Prime An AI-powered, cloud-based LMS that focuses on delivering personalized learning experiences.




Azure Ai Foundary:





21 CFR Part 11 Compliance Checklist

1. Validation and System Controls:
   - Validation Documentation: Includes Installation Qualification (IQ), Operational Qualification (OQ), and Performance Qualification (PQ).
   - System Access Control: Implements rate limiting, access controls for individuals, and role-based security to protect endpoints.
   - Data Integrity: The system must have measures in place to ensure that data has not been altered during transmission from a device to the system.

2. Audit Trails:
   - Deletion Policy: Utilizes "soft deletes" (marking records as deleted) instead of "hard deletes" (permanent removal) to preserve record history.
   - Change Logs: Maintains detailed logs of every change in the database, including a unique ID and the type of operation (Create, Read, Update, Delete).

3. Electronic Signatures:
   - 1. Uniqueness and Security:
     - Each employee who interacts with the system is assigned a unique user ID and password, which serves as their electronic signature.
     - Real-World Application: When a manager approves an SOP, they log in with unique credentials. The system ensures this user ID is never reassigned, guaranteeing that every action is tied to a specific individual.

   - 2. Signature Linking:
     - Once a record is signed, the electronic signature is permanently and securely linked to that specific version of the document.
     - Real-World Application: The signature is a cryptographic binding of the signer's identity, the timestamp, and the document's content. Any alteration to the document post-signature would invalidate the signature. It cannot be copied to another document.

   - 3. Signature Components:
     - When a signed record is viewed or printed, the signature must be represented in a clear, human-readable format.
     - Real-World Application: The system displays the signer's printed name ("John Smith"), the date and time ("August 22, 2025, 2:15 PM"), and the meaning of the signature ("Approved"), making the context clear.

   - 4. Identity Verification:
     - The system requires the user to re-authenticate themselves at the moment of signing to confirm their identity.
     - Real-World Application: After clicking "Approve," a dialog box prompts the user to re-enter their password. This two-factor process (login + re-authentication) verifies the signer's identity.

4. Record Management:
   - 1. Record Generation and Copies:
     - The system must be able to generate accurate and complete copies of electronic records in both human-readable (e.g., PDF) and electronic formats for inspection.
     - Real-World Application: A lab technician enters results into a LIMS. For an FDA inspection, the LIMS must produce a complete PDF report (human-readable) and an electronic copy that preserves the original record's content and meaning.

   - 2. Data Export:
     - The system must support exporting records in standard formats to facilitate review, transfer, and long-term archival.
     - Real-World Application: A biotech company needs to submit stability data. The LIMS can export this data as a PDF for easy review or as an XML/CSV file for data analysis and import into other systems. Using checksums can ensure data integrity during export.

5. Documentation and Policies:
   - 1. User and System Documentation:
     - The vendor must provide comprehensive, controlled documentation for system operation, maintenance, and training.
     - Real-World Application: This includes user manuals, admin guides for backups and security, and a formal change control process for the documentation itself, ensuring it always matches the validated system.

   - 2. Written Policies:
     - The organization must establish formal written policies that hold individuals accountable for actions taken under their electronic signatures.
     - Real-World Application: The company creates an "Electronic Records and Signatures Policy" stating that credentials are the legal equivalent of a handwritten signature, passwords must not be shared, and individuals are accountable for all actions under their user ID.

   - 3. Training:
     - All personnel who use, maintain, or develop the system must be adequately trained, and this training must be documented.
     - Real-World Application: A new engineer completes vendor-provided training, internal role-based training, and a review of the company's policies. This training is formally documented in their employee record as proof of qualification.




Changes :

Back navigation Icon and its functionality
Home Should have anchor tag

In Navigation course should not have the groups



make api calls accordingly to the group insted of getting the enterprises groups data 
Get the data for the Analytic Dashboard

In Jotform Builder i also need a option to remove pages 
Naviagation required when we click on the map assignment form in the course mangment


Responsive ui:

features in the nav hamburger aligned to the left
paragraph under the key features of the pulse lms in the home page
tables are overfolwing from the screen width

Main Functions:

Frontend :
Assignment ui should have the instructions and the video recording for the jotform

Backend:
The Assignment and learning post data will be get updated in the results tab
update the security functions :
                                Authorization
                                authentication
                                Ratelimitting
                                cors
                                Sql injection
                                firewalls
                                csrf
                                xss




End points :
Admindashboard:

jotform : put request
course : put request
usermap: put request

userdashboard:

jotform: post request for learning and Assignment




changes:

Back Navigation in the Each card in LmsDashboard    --Done

usermapping:
update endpoint in the usermapping            
Assign the multiple Batches to the group  

jotform-managment:
Update endpoint at the jortform creation      
update the jortform elements to the each table that makes more effecient  

subjectmangment:
Each Topic should not fall in to another Subject  --done

Coursemangment:
update endpoint at the Coursemangment   

After login Navigate to Dashboard according to the roles  --done
Publish Result Button needed after check all the results then user will need to get the results

Course Completion updation table --done
validations for each Topic
  
Store the basic userDetails in the frontend local storage   --done

clear all cokkies after logout          -done

Certificate generation for the user after completion of each topic

when the admin map the user then also change the user role to employee

Add the Forgot password Functionality  

update the security functions :
                                Authorization   -done
                                authentication  -done
                                Ratelimitting
                                cors            -done
                                Sql injection   -done
                                firewalls       --default available if we deploy in aws
                                csrf            -done
                                xss             -done                  



Tuesday:
Testing the backend Api on postman to get the jwt token and for all other end points
stored the jwt token in the localstorage Frontend.
Updated the Role Based Access for the user based on the group--Authorization


Wednesday:
created the Authentication Context to store the cokkiee globally .
updated the Each endpoint in the frontend  based on the roles
Meeting:Eduzen Lms 


Thursday:
Builded the Vitamin D camp frontend React App and backend Node App for the Reference.
update the login  and logout functionality.
stored the jwt token in the cokkies from the backend.
updated Security Functionality :xss 
                                cors



Friday:
  updated Security Functionality :csrf    

  issue:when i click on the logout the cokkies are not getting cleared from the backend .
  Reason:issue resolved because of path 

  Deployed Frontend Application on Neltliy

  Issue :Cokkies are not getting Stored in the Production frontend--Netlify --not solved
  updated the Authentication for Frontend and backend ,reason Caching issue on the netlify 

  checked the best practices for usertable connection to the main Application 

  Back Navigation in the Each card in LmsDashboard  

  Created the userdetails dto to get the usedetails

Saturday:
   Extracting the Group name from the usermapping and added to the userdetailsdto

   Removed the relation between the usermapping and subject: case1-->if admin trys to map an 
                                  unregistered user from api they wont get the use details
                                                 case2-->if admin want to map an registered
                                                  user there won't be a problem
  updated the usergroupmapping and subject model-->Done changes to the both controllers 
                                                  and service layers code                                                   
   Issue:UserDetails are not getting fetched from the backend while testing on the postman
            -->Gettting the userdetailsdto from the endpoint

  created the updateuserDetails funtionality in both frontend and backend

  if the user role are (EMPLOYEE or USER ) then user need to upadte the profile if the DOJ is 
                                      not present--navigat to updateuser profile frontend page
                                      --else if the user have DOJ and the role as EMPLOYEE 
                                            navigate to content
  updated the code for the each userdetails in local storage and user context global state

  Another case --Admin Updated the usermapiing but still the user looged in to the system 
                --then the  details are not updated in the localstorage and user context global state for the user
                --solution ,user need to relogin to the system. 

Monday:

    Issue:In Subject controller user cant able to get the data 
          done changes group name type issue and  role based access controls  

  created the coursecompletion table and related to usertable 
  while user click on submit in the learning material the course completion table will get updated.
  updated the controllers,service and repo layers which are related to coursecompletion modal,and also updated the frontend.

  Edge cases: removed the groupname which is getting updated from the userdetails from the localstorage,where user 
              will have list of groupnames.

  One topic need not fall in multiple subjects.--done

  Tuesday:
    while creating the new DB and using it, making the login error --made changes to the frontend and the backend
    --issue not resolved 
    




  UserDetails Update Functionality  -done
  CourseCompletion table      -done
  One Topic Shouldn't Fall in to Another Subject -done
  Certficated Geration and get Access it from the Aws s3 storage  -done
  Validation for Each Topic  -done
  Score Publish Functionality
  Forgot Password Functionality
  One student should be allowed to multiple Batches
  UserMapping Update endpoint -done
  JotForm Update endpoint
  CourseMAngment UpdateEndpoint -done



Improvment : update the JortForm Content Table to each seperate tables for Each element.


changes:

update the content type in the architecture   -Done
Two options in admin to be removed  --DONE
page count in the screen   --done
progression bar for assignment   --done 
progression bar for learning   -done
time per page    
record starts in 5 4 3 2 1 --done


Validation for sets
course completion status and score
       



